content/how-to/rackspace-email/export-email-address-data-from-outlook-2016-for-windows/index.md, before:

---
permalink: export-email-address-data-from-outlook-2016-for-windows
audit_date: '2017-10-19'
title: Export email address data from Outlook 2016 for Windows
type: article
created_date: '2017-09-04'
created_by: William Loy
last_modified_date: '2018-11-15'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Rackspace Email
product_url: rackspace-email
---

This article describes how to export a copy of your email address data from Outlook 2016.

### Prerequisites

- **Applies to:** User
- **Difficulty:** Easy
- **Time needed:** Dependent on amount of data being exported
- **Tools required:**  Access to the Outlook account from which you want to export

For more information about prerequisite terminology, see [Cloud Office support terminology](/support/how-to/cloud-office-support-terminology/).

If you need to export or import email address data from a different Outlook version, see [Export and Import email address data using Outlook](/support/how-to/export-and-import-email-address-data-using-outlook) for a list of all version articles.


### Export email address data

1. In Outlook 2016, click **File > Options**.

   {{<image src="options2016.png" alt="" title="">}}

2. In the Outlook Options window, click **Advanced**.

   {{<image src="advanced2016.png" alt="" title="">}}

3. In the Export section, click **Export**.

   {{<image src="export2016.png" alt="" title="">}}

   The Import and Export wizard launches.

4. In the Import and Export wizard, click **Export to a file**, and then click **Next**.

   {{<image src="export_to_file2016.png" alt="" title="">}}

5. Click **Outlook Data File (.pst)**, and then click **Next**.

   {{<image src="outlook_data_file2016.png" alt="" title="">}}

6. Select the folder that you want to export, and then click **Next**.

   In this case, select the email address at the top of the folder list and select the checkbox for **Include subfolders** to export all data.  

   {{<image src="export_folder_list2016.png" alt="" title="">}}

7. Click **Browse** and then select the location where you want to save the **.pst** file.

   **Note:** Save the file somewhere that you can easily locate for later use, such as the Desktop.

8. In the **File Name** box, type the name that you want to use for the new **.pst** file and click **OK**.

   **Note:** You might be prompted to enter a password. This is optional and you can click **OK** to skip it.

   {{<image src="browse_finish2016.png" alt="" title="">}}

9. Click **Finish**.


If you are ready to import the data into another Outlook 2016 profile, see [Import email address data into Outlook 2016 for Windows](/support/how-to/import-email-address-data-into-outlook-2016-for-windows).

Commit message:

audit-outlook2016 (#1186)
* edits

* edits

* image removal

Co-authored-by: Cat Lookabaugh <cat.lookabaugh@rackspace.com>

content/how-to/rackspace-email/export-email-address-data-from-outlook-2016-for-windows/index.md, after:

---
permalink: export-email-address-data-from-outlook-2016-for-windows
audit_date: '2021-06-15'
title: Export email address data from Outlook 2016 for Windows
type: article
created_date: '2017-09-04'
created_by: William Loy
last_modified_date: '2021-06-15'
last_modified_by: Rose Morales
product: Rackspace Email
product_url: rackspace-email
---

This article describes how to export a copy of your email address data from Outlook 2016.

### Prerequisites

- **Applies to:** User
- **Difficulty:** Easy
- **Time needed:** Depends on the amount of exported data
- **Tools required:**  Access to the Outlook account from which you want to export

For more information about prerequisite terminology, see [Cloud Office support terminology](/support/how-to/cloud-office-support-terminology/).

If you need to export or import email address data from a different Outlook
version, see [Export and Import email address data using Outlook](/support/how-to/export-and-import-email-address-data-using-outlook)
for a list of all version articles.

### Export email address data

1. In Outlook 2016, click **File > Options**.

2. In the Outlook Options window, click **Advanced**.

3. In the Export section, click **Export**.

   The Import and Export wizard launches.

4. In the Import and Export wizard, click **Export to a file** and then click **Next**.

5. Click **Outlook Data File (.pst)** and then click **Next**.

6. Select the folder that you want to export and then click **Next**.

   In this case, select the email address at the top of the folder list and
   select the checkbox for **Include subfolders** to export all data.

7. Click **Browse** and then select the location where you want to save the
   **.pst** file.

   **Note:** Save the file somewhere you can locate it for later use, such as
   the Desktop.

8. In the **File Name** box, type the name that you want to use for the new
   **.pst** file and click **OK**.

   **Note:** If you see a prompt to enter an optional password, you
   can click **OK** to skip it.

9. Click **Finish**.

If you are ready to import the data into another Outlook 2016 profile, see
[Import email address data into Outlook 2016 for Windows](/support/how-to/import-email-address-data-into-outlook-2016-for-windows).
