content/how-to/rackspace-email/set-an-email-catch-all-address/index.md, before:

---
permalink: set-an-email-catch-all-address
audit_date: '2021-02-15'
type: article
title: Set an email catch all address
created_date: '2021-02-15'
created_by: Liz Dahlquist
last_modified_date: '2021-02-15'
last_modified_by: Rose Morales
product: Rackspace Email
product_url: rackspace-email
---

### Prerequisites

- **Applies to:** Administrator
- **Difficulty:** Easy  
- **Time needed:** Depends on the migration type
- **Tools required:** Administrator access

### Catch-All addressing

Catch-All addressing is a mail-routing server feature that you can enable and
link to a live mailbox. This feature aims to collect all email that
comes to misspelled or nonexistent mailboxes on your domain.

The administrator should monitor the mailbox linked to the Catch-All server setting regularly
to identify misdirected or legitimate emails.

**Important**: The system does not filter Catch-All addresses for spam. Use at your own
risk. With this feature enabled, you receive thousands of spam email from
spammers who guess random addresses within your domain.

1. Click **Domains**.
2. Click **Catch All Address**.
3. Insert the email address you would like to use as the Catch-All address.
4. Click **Save**.

Commit message:

Several document updates for OX
Updated the OX FAQ.  Removed the CP steps from the document that explains how to setup a forward address. Added a note to the Catch all, and SDR documents informing people that it has been sunset.

content/how-to/rackspace-email/set-an-email-catch-all-address/index.md, after:

---
permalink: set-an-email-catch-all-address
audit_date: '2021-02-15'
type: article
title: Set an email catch all address
created_date: '2021-02-15'
created_by: Liz Dahlquist
last_modified_date: '2021-02-15'
last_modified_by: Rose Morales
product: Rackspace Email
product_url: rackspace-email
---

### Prerequisites

- **Applies to:** Administrator
- **Difficulty:** Easy  
- **Time needed:** Depends on the migration type
- **Tools required:** Administrator access

### Catch-All addressing

**Important**: This feature has been **sunset**. Refer to the [Rackspace Email to Open-Xchange Migration FAQ](https://docs.rackspace.com/support/how-to/rackspace-email-all-articles)

Catch-All addressing is a mail-routing server feature that you can enable and
link to a live mailbox. This feature aims to collect all email that
comes to misspelled or nonexistent mailboxes on your domain.

The administrator should monitor the mailbox linked to the Catch-All server setting regularly
to identify misdirected or legitimate emails.

**Important**: The system does not filter Catch-All addresses for spam. Use at your own
risk. With this feature enabled, you receive thousands of spam email from
spammers who guess random addresses within your domain.

1. Click **Domains**.
2. Click **Catch All Address**.
3. Insert the email address you would like to use as the Catch-All address.
4. Click **Save**.
