content/how-to/general/legal/index.md, before:

---
permalink: legal
audit_date:
title: RACKSPACE HOW-TO LICENSE
type: article
created_date: '2012-08-24'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2018-11-27'
last_modified_by: Kate Dougherty
product: General
product_url: general
---

Except where otherwise noted, the Rackspace How-To site and
documentation is licensed under the [Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/).

-   **Attribution:**  Rackspace How-To documents are intended
    for use by Rackspace customers. Credit Rackspace for the
    documentation, and don't distribute old versions that might not
    reflect the latest changes.
-   **Non-commercial use:** Rackspace defines commercial use of the
    Rackspace How-To documentation as republication
    for profit. Using the documentation within a commercial enterprise
    or using the guide to develop for-profit applications by using the
    Rackspace Cloud Servers API is allowed and encouraged.
-   **No derivative works:** Do not alter, edit, or modify
    this documentation. Rackspace tries to ensure that this documentation
    is kept up-to-date with the latest changes and best practices, so it
    is important that this documentation be maintained in a consistent
    state.

Your use of any API that you download from the Rackspace website, as well as
the code examples contained within the documentation, are governed by
the license terms included with the code in the file named README,
COPYING or LICENSE or like name.

### RACKSPACE HOW-TO DISCLAIMER

The Rackspace How-To articles are for informational purposes
only and are provided "AS IS."  The information set forth in these
articles is intended as a guide and not as a step-by-step process and
does not represent an assessment of any specific compliance with laws or
regulations or constitute advice. We strongly recommend that you engage
additional expertise in order to evaluate applicable
requirements for your specific environment further.

RACKSPACE MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, AS TO THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE CONTENTS OF THE
RACKSPACE HOW-TO SITE OR DOCUMENTATION AND RESERVES THE
RIGHT TO MAKE CHANGES TO SPECIFICATIONS AND PRODUCT OR SERVICES DESCRIPTION
AT ANY TIME WITHOUT NOTICE.  RACKSPACE RESERVES THE RIGHT TO DISCONTINUE
OR MAKE CHANGES TO ITS SERVICES OFFERINGS AT ANY TIME WITHOUT NOTICE.
USERS MUST TAKE FULL RESPONSIBILITY FOR APPLICATION OF ANY SERVICES
OR PROCESSES MENTIONED HEREIN.  EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN RACKSPACE
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS, CLOUD TERMS OF SERVICE OR OTHER
AGREEMENTS THAT YOU SIGN WITH RACKSPACE, RACKSPACE ASSUMES NO LIABILITY
WHATSOEVER, AND DISCLAIMS ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY, RELATING TO
ITS SERVICES INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTY OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NONINFRINGEMENT.

ALTHOUGH PART OF THE HOW-TO DOCUMENTATION EXPLAINS HOW
RACKSPACE SERVICES MAY WORK WITH THIRD PARTY PRODUCTS, THE INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE ARTICLES IS NOT DESIGNED TO WORK WITH
ALL SCENARIOS. ANY USE OR CHANGES TO THIRD PARTY PRODUCTS OR
CONFIGURATIONS SHOULD BE MADE AT THE DISCRETION OF YOUR ADMINISTRATORS
AND SUBJECT TO THE APPLICABLE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH THIRD PARTY.
RACKSPACE DOES NOT PROVIDE TECHNICAL SUPPORT FOR THIRD PARTY PRODUCTS,
OTHER THAN SPECIFIED IN YOUR HOSTING SERVICES AGREEMENT YOU HAVE WITH
RACKSPACE AND RACKSPACE ACCEPTS NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIRD-PARTY
PRODUCTS.

Except as expressly provided in any written license agreement from
Rackspace, the furnishing of this document does not give you any license
to patents, trademarks, copyrights, or other intellectual property.

Rackspace&reg;, Rackspace logo, and
RackConnect&trade; are service marks or registered service marks of Rackspace
US, Inc. in the United States or other countries. OpenStack&trade; and
OpenStack logo are trademarks of OpenStack, LLC.

All other product names and trademarks used in the Rackspace How-To
documentation are for identification purposes only to refer to
either the entities claiming the marks and names or their products and
are property of their respective owners.  We do not intend our use or
display of other companies' tradenames, trademarks, or service marks to
imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of us by, these
other companies.

### The Use of the word PARTNER

The use of the word _partner_ or _channel partner_ does not imply a
partnership relationship between Rackspace and any other company.

Commit message:

Audit changes legal, Rackspace changes to Rackspace Technology (#1172)

content/how-to/general/legal/index.md, after:

---
permalink: legal
audit_date: '2021-06-08'
title: RACKSPACE TECHNOLOGY&reg; HOW-TO LICENSE
type: article
created_date: '2012-08-24'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2021-06-08'
last_modified_by: Ana Corpus
product: General
product_url: general
---

Except where otherwise noted, the Rackspace Technology&reg; How-To site and
documentation is licensed under the [Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/).

-   **Attribution:**  Rackspace Technology How-To documents are intended
    for use by Rackspace Technology customers. Credit Rackspace Technology for the
    documentation, and don't distribute old versions that might not
    reflect the latest changes.
-   **Non-commercial use:** Rackspace Technology defines commercial use of the
    Rackspace Technology How-To documentation as republication
    for profit. Using the documentation within a commercial enterprise
    or using the guide to develop for-profit applications by using the
    Rackspace Technology Cloud Servers API is allowed and encouraged.
-   **No derivative works:** Do not alter, edit, or modify
    this documentation. Rackspace Technology tries to ensure that this documentation
    is kept up-to-date with the latest changes and best practices, so it
    is important that this documentation be maintained in a consistent
    state.

Your use of any API that you download from the Rackspace Technology website, as well as
the code examples contained within the documentation, are governed by
the license terms included with the code in the file named README,
COPYING or LICENSE or like name.

### RACKSPACE TECHNOLOGY HOW-TO DISCLAIMER

The Rackspace Technology How-To articles are for informational purposes
only and are provided "AS IS."  The information set forth in these
articles is intended as a guide and not as a step-by-step process and
does not represent an assessment of any specific compliance with laws or
regulations or constitute advice. We strongly recommend that you engage
additional expertise in order to evaluate applicable
requirements for your specific environment further.

RACKSPACE TECHNOLOGY MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, AS TO THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE CONTENTS OF THE
RACKSPACE TECHNOLOGY HOW-TO SITE OR DOCUMENTATION AND RESERVES THE
RIGHT TO MAKE CHANGES TO SPECIFICATIONS AND PRODUCT OR SERVICES DESCRIPTION
AT ANY TIME WITHOUT NOTICE.  RACKSPACE TECHNOLOGY RESERVES THE RIGHT TO DISCONTINUE
OR MAKE CHANGES TO ITS SERVICES OFFERINGS AT ANY TIME WITHOUT NOTICE.
USERS MUST TAKE FULL RESPONSIBILITY FOR APPLICATION OF ANY SERVICES
RACKSPACE TECHNOLOGY
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS, CLOUD TERMS OF SERVICE OR OTHER
AGREEMENTS THAT YOU SIGN WITH RACKSPACE TECHNOLOGY, RACKSPACE TECHNOLOGY ASSUMES NO LIABILITY
WHATSOEVER, AND DISCLAIMS ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY, RELATING TO
ITS SERVICES INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTY OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NONINFRINGEMENT.

ALTHOUGH PART OF THE HOW-TO DOCUMENTATION EXPLAINS HOW
RACKSPACE TECHNOLOGY SERVICES MAY WORK WITH THIRD PARTY PRODUCTS, THE INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE ARTICLES IS NOT DESIGNED TO WORK WITH
ALL SCENARIOS. ANY USE OR CHANGES TO THIRD PARTY PRODUCTS OR
CONFIGURATIONS SHOULD BE MADE AT THE DISCRETION OF YOUR ADMINISTRATORS
AND SUBJECT TO THE APPLICABLE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH THIRD PARTY.
RACKSPACE TECHNOLOGY DOES NOT PROVIDE TECHNICAL SUPPORT FOR THIRD PARTY PRODUCTS,
OTHER THAN SPECIFIED IN YOUR HOSTING SERVICES AGREEMENT YOU HAVE WITH
RACKSPACE TECHNOLOGY AND RACKSPACE TECHNOLOGY ACCEPTS NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIRD-PARTY
PRODUCTS.

Except as expressly provided in any written license agreement from
Rackspace Technology, the furnishing of this document does not give you any license
to patents, trademarks, copyrights, or other intellectual property.

Rackspace Technology&reg;, Rackspace Technology logo, and
RackConnect&trade; are service marks or registered service marks of Rackspace Technology
US, Inc. in the United States or other countries. OpenStack&trade; and
OpenStack logo are trademarks of OpenStack, LLC.

All other product names and trademarks used in the Rackspace Technology How-To
documentation are for identification purposes only to refer to
either the entities claiming the marks and names or their products and
are property of their respective owners.  We do not intend our use or
display of other companies' tradenames, trademarks, or service marks to
imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of us by, these
other companies.

### The Use of the word PARTNER

The use of the word _partner_ or _channel partner_ does not imply a
partnership relationship between Rackspace Technology and any other company.
