content/how-to/rackspace-email/manage-multi-factor-authentication-for-rackspace-webmail/index.md, before:

---
permalink: manage-multi-factor-authentication-for-rackspace-webmail/
audit_date: '2020-10-05'
title: Manage multi-factor authentication for Rackspace Webmail
type: article
created_date: '2020-10-05'
created_by: Daniel Boyle
last_modified_date: '2020-10-05'
last_modified_by: Stephanie Fillmon
product: Rackspace Email
product_url: rackspace-email
---

This article describes how to manage multi-factor authentication for
Rackspace Webmail.

### Prerequisites

- **Applies to:** User
- **Difficulty:** Easy
- **Tools required:** Access to your Rackspace Webmail account

For more information on prerequisite terminology, see
[Cloud Office support terminology](/support/how-to/cloud-office-support-terminology).

Rackspace Webmail provides two options for enabling multi-factor
authentication when you first log in: text message authentication and mobile
application authentication.

### Use text message authentication

With text message multi-factor authentication, you can use your phone number to
receive a one-time code that allows you to access Webmail.

1. Log in to [Rackspace Webmail](https://apps.rackspace.com/).
2. When prompted to *Choose Your Multi-Factor Authentication Method*,
   select **Get A Text Message**.
3. Enter the phone number that you want to use for multi-factor SMS messaging.
4. Enter the code sent to your phone in the verification field and then click
   **Verify Code**.

A message stating *You have successfully set up Multi-Factor Authentication*
displays.

### Use a multi-factor authentication mobile application

Mobile applications for authentication enable you to manage multi-factor
authentication for multiple accounts in one place without having to provide
your phone number.

1. Log in to [Rackspace Webmail](https://apps.rackspace.com/).
2. When prompted to *Choose Your Multi-Factor Authentication Method*,
   select **Use an Authenticator**.
3. Link your mobile device to your account by following the instructions on
   the **Securing Your Account with an Authenticator App** screen.
4. The last step displays a message stating *You have successfully set up
   Multi-Factor Authentication*.

### Log in to Webmail with multi-factor authentication

After you have enabled multi-factor authentication, use the following steps
when you log in to Rackspace Webmail:

1. Log in to [Rackspace Webmail](https://apps.rackspace.com/) by using your
   email address and password.
2. When prompted, enter the verification code from the SMS text message or
   authentication app.
3. Select the appropriate option for **Remember This Device**.
4. Click **Verify My Code**.


### Enable or disable multi-factor authentication

If your account administrator has multi-factor authentication configured as
optional for your account, you can enable or disable multi-factor
authentication in your account settings.

1. Log in to [Rackspace Webmail](https://apps.rackspace.com/).
2. Open the Webmail settings page and select **Security**.
3. Slide the Multi-Factor Authentication setting to either the **On** or
   **Off** position.

   1. When you select **On**, the system displays the multi-factor
      authentication setup screen if you don't have password recovery enabled.
   2. If you have password recovery enabled, the system uses the authentication
      type configured for password recovery.
   3. If you select **Off**, multi-factor authentication is immediately
      disabled.

{{<image src="mfa-settings.png" alt="" title="">}}


### Reset multi-factor authentication

You might need to perform these steps if you want to change your
authentication method or set up a new device.

1. Log in to [Rackspace Webmail](https://apps.rackspace.com/).
2. Open the Webmail settings page and select **Security**.
3. In the Authentication Type section, click **Reset**.

   {{<image src="reset-mfa.png" alt="" title="">}}

4. The **Choose Your Multi-Factor Authentication Method** screen displays. See
   the previous sections for instructions to set up your preferred
   authentication type.

### Manage multi-factor authentication on linked devices

If you access your Rackspace Webmail account on multiple devices, you can
manage which devices are trusted and no longer receive a prompt for
multi-factor authentication when you log in. You can also remove devices from
the trusted list.

1. Log in to [Rackspace Webmail](https://apps.rackspace.com/).
2. Open the Webmail settings page and select **Security**.
3. In the **Trusted Devices** section, you can see a list of trusted devices
   associated with your email account.

   You can remove devices that you do not recognize or no longer use by
   clicking the trash icon.

   {{<image src="mfa-trusted-devices.png" alt="" title="">}}

If you remove a device from the **Trusted Devices** list, you must use
multi-factor authentication when you next log in to your account on that
device.

Commit message:

multifactor instead of multi-factor

content/how-to/rackspace-email/manage-multi-factor-authentication-for-rackspace-webmail/index.md, after:

---
permalink: manage-multifactor-authentication-for-rackspace-webmail/
audit_date: '2020-10-05'
title: Manage multifactor authentication for Rackspace Webmail
type: article
created_date: '2020-10-05'
created_by: Daniel Boyle
last_modified_date: '2020-10-05'
last_modified_by: Stephanie Fillmon
product: Rackspace Email
product_url: rackspace-email
---

This article describes how to manage multifactor authentication for
Rackspace Webmail.

### Prerequisites

- **Applies to:** User
- **Difficulty:** Easy
- **Tools required:** Access to your Rackspace Webmail account

For more information on prerequisite terminology, see
[Cloud Office support terminology](/support/how-to/cloud-office-support-terminology).

Rackspace Webmail provides two options for enabling multifactor
authentication when you first log in: text message authentication and mobile
application authentication.

### Use text message authentication

With text message multifactor authentication, you can use your phone number to
receive a one-time code that allows you to access Webmail.

1. Log in to [Rackspace Webmail](https://apps.rackspace.com/).
2. When prompted to *Choose Your Multi-Factor Authentication Method*,
   select **Get A Text Message**.
3. Enter the phone number that you want to use for multifactor SMS messaging.
4. Enter the code sent to your phone in the verification field and then click
   **Verify Code**.

A message stating *You have successfully set up Multi-Factor Authentication*
displays.

### Use a multifactor authentication mobile application

Mobile applications for authentication enable you to manage multifactor
authentication for multiple accounts in one place without having to provide
your phone number.

1. Log in to [Rackspace Webmail](https://apps.rackspace.com/).
2. When prompted to *Choose Your Multi-Factor Authentication Method*,
   select **Use an Authenticator**.
3. Link your mobile device to your account by following the instructions on
   the **Securing Your Account with an Authenticator App** screen.
4. The last step displays a message stating *You have successfully set up
   Multi-Factor Authentication*.

### Log in to Webmail with multifactor authentication

After you have enabled multifactor authentication, use the following steps
when you log in to Rackspace Webmail:

1. Log in to [Rackspace Webmail](https://apps.rackspace.com/) by using your
   email address and password.
2. When prompted, enter the verification code from the SMS text message or
   authentication app.
3. Select the appropriate option for **Remember This Device**.
4. Click **Verify My Code**.


### Enable or disable multifactor authentication

If your account administrator has multifactor authentication configured as
optional for your account, you can enable or disable multifactor
authentication in your account settings.

1. Log in to [Rackspace Webmail](https://apps.rackspace.com/).
2. Open the Webmail settings page and select **Security**.
3. Slide the Multi-Factor Authentication setting to either the **On** or
   **Off** position.

   1. When you select **On**, the system displays the multifactor
      authentication setup screen if you don't have password recovery enabled.
   2. If you have password recovery enabled, the system uses the authentication
      type configured for password recovery.
   3. If you select **Off**, multifactor authentication is immediately
      disabled.

{{<image src="mfa-settings.png" alt="" title="">}}


### Reset multifactor authentication

You might need to perform these steps if you want to change your
authentication method or set up a new device.

1. Log in to [Rackspace Webmail](https://apps.rackspace.com/).
2. Open the Webmail settings page and select **Security**.
3. In the Authentication Type section, click **Reset**.

   {{<image src="reset-mfa.png" alt="" title="">}}

4. The **Choose Your Multi-Factor Authentication Method** screen displays. See
   the previous sections for instructions to set up your preferred
   authentication type.

### Manage multifactor authentication on linked devices

If you access your Rackspace Webmail account on multiple devices, you can
manage which devices are trusted and no longer receive a prompt for
multifactor authentication when you log in. You can also remove devices from
the trusted list.

1. Log in to [Rackspace Webmail](https://apps.rackspace.com/).
2. Open the Webmail settings page and select **Security**.
3. In the **Trusted Devices** section, you can see a list of trusted devices
   associated with your email account.

   You can remove devices that you do not recognize or no longer use by
   clicking the trash icon.

   {{<image src="mfa-trusted-devices.png" alt="" title="">}}

If you remove a device from the **Trusted Devices** list, you must use
multifactor authentication when you next log in to your account on that
device.
