content/how-to/rackspace-email-archiving/rackspace-email-archiving-faq/index.md, before:

---
permalink: rackspace-email-archiving-faq/
title: Rackspace Email Archiving FAQ
type: article
created_date: '2016-01-17'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2016-01-26'
last_modified_by: Catherine Richardson
product: Rackspace Email Archiving
product_url: rackspace-email-archiving
---


{{<accordion title="Is there a limit on how much data I can export from my email archive?" col="in" href="accordion1">}}

You export your data from the archive by creating searches and exporting
the results of the searches. You can export searches with a maximum of
15,000 results and a total size of 3.5 GB, whichever happens first. To
avoid reaching either limit, you can narrow the search parameters to
split up the items being exported into smaller chunks. You can also
request an archive export from the Cloud Office team through the
ticketing process at a cost of \$6 per GB for EML format and \$9 per GB
for PST format.
{{</accordion>}}
{{<accordion title="What filetypes can I export as an output?" col="in" href="accordion2">}}

PST/NSF, File (EML), Text, PDF, or HTML.
{{</accordion>}}
{{<accordion title="Are existing messages in my users' mailboxes added to the archive automatically?" col="in" href="accordion3">}}

No. The fee for archiving imports is \$6 per GB, regardless of the
method used:

-   If the messages already exist in Rackspace Email mailboxes, the
    Cloud Office team will upload the information for the user.
-   If users have messages that do not exist in their mailboxes hosted
    with us, they must export their data to PST, EML, MSG, or MBOX files
    and compress them to either ZIP, RAR, Bz2, or GZ format. Then the
    Cloud Office team can help them upload their data to our FTP site
    for importing.
{{</accordion>}}
{{<accordion title="I've turned on archiving. When will I see messages in the archive?" col="in" href="accordion4">}}

You will see messages in the archive within 24 hours after enabling
archiving. The archiving tool starts as soon as your site is created,
but the tool needs time to build the index and make the data searchable.
{{</accordion>}}
{{<accordion title="The control panel shows that archiving is off, but I never turned it off. What do I do?" col="in" href="accordion5">}}

You can contact support by creating a support ticket through the Cloud
Office Control Panel, or calling 1 800 961 4454.
{{</accordion>}}
{{<accordion title="Can my users access the archive? Do they need to be Control Panel admins?" col="in" href="accordion6">}}

Users can access the archive but they do not need be Control Panel
admins to do so. However, they must be added as archive users.

To add a user to the archive, follow the instructions in [Add and edit
archive users in Cloud
Office](/support/how-to/add-and-edit-archive-users-in-cloud-office).
{{</accordion>}}
{{<accordion title="Does email archiving integrate with Outlook?" col="in" href="accordion7">}}

Yes. However, Outlook integration with Email Archiving is not enabled by
default. To enable integration, follow the directions in [Integrate
Rackspace Email Archiving with
Outlook](/support/how-to/integrate-rackspace-email-archiving-with-outlook).
{{</accordion>}}

Commit message:

Update Email Archive Data export limit per Clint Fellows (#1024)
* Update Email Archive Data export limit per Clint Fellows

* edits

Co-authored-by: Cat Lookabaugh <cat.lookabaugh@rackspace.com>

content/how-to/rackspace-email-archiving/rackspace-email-archiving-faq/index.md, after:

---
permalink: rackspace-email-archiving-faq/
title: Rackspace Email Archiving FAQ
type: article
created_date: '2016-01-17'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2016-01-26'
last_modified_by: Catherine Richardson
product: Rackspace Email Archiving
product_url: rackspace-email-archiving
---


{{<accordion title="Is there a limit on how much data I can export from my email archive?" col="in" href="accordion1">}}

You export your data from the archive by creating searches and exporting
the results of the searches. You can export searches with a maximum of
30,000 results and a total size of 20 GB, whichever limit comes first. To
avoid reaching either limit, you can narrow the search parameters to
split up the exported items into smaller chunks. You can also
request an archive export from the Cloud Office team through the
ticketing process at a \$6 per GB cost for EML format and \$9 per GB
for PST format.
{{</accordion>}}
{{<accordion title="What filetypes can I export as an output?" col="in" href="accordion2">}}

PST/NSF, File (EML), Text, PDF, or HTML.
{{</accordion>}}
{{<accordion title="Are existing messages in my users' mailboxes added to the archive automatically?" col="in" href="accordion3">}}

No. The fee for archiving imports is \$6 per GB, regardless of the
method used:

-   If the messages already exist in Rackspace Email mailboxes, the
    Cloud Office team will upload the information for the user.
-   If users have messages that do not exist in their mailboxes hosted
    with us, they must export their data to PST, EML, MSG, or MBOX files
    and compress them to either ZIP, RAR, Bz2, or GZ format. Then the
    Cloud Office team can help them upload their data to our FTP site
    for importing.
{{</accordion>}}
{{<accordion title="I've turned on archiving. When will I see messages in the archive?" col="in" href="accordion4">}}

You will see messages in the archive within 24 hours after enabling
archiving. The archiving tool starts as soon as you create your site,
but the tool needs time to build the index and make the data searchable.
{{</accordion>}}
{{<accordion title="The control panel shows that archiving is off, but I never turned it off. What do I do?" col="in" href="accordion5">}}

You can contact support by creating a support ticket through the Cloud
Office Control Panel or by calling 1-800-961-4454.
{{</accordion>}}
{{<accordion title="Can my users access the archive? Do they need to be Control Panel admins?" col="in" href="accordion6">}}

Users can access the archive, but they do not need to be Control Panel
admins. However, an admin must add them as archive users.

To add a user to the archive, follow the instructions in [Add and edit
archive users in Cloud
Office](/support/how-to/add-and-edit-archive-users-in-cloud-office).
{{</accordion>}}
{{<accordion title="Does email archiving integrate with Outlook?" col="in" href="accordion7">}}

Yes. However, Outlook integration with Email Archiving is not enabled by
default. To enable integration, follow the directions in [Integrate
Rackspace Email Archiving with
Outlook](/support/how-to/integrate-rackspace-email-archiving-with-outlook).
{{</accordion>}}
