content/how-to/general/definition-of-personally-identifiable-information-pii/index.md, before:

---
permalink: definition-of-personally-identifiable-information-pii
audit_date:
title: Definition of Personally Identifiable Information (PII)
type: article
created_date: '2012-04-11'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2016-06-16'
last_modified_by: Kelly Holcomb
product: General
product_url: general
---

When you evaluate the security requirements of an application, the
sensitivity of information that is being stored, processed, or
transmitted by the application is important. Personally Identifiable
Information (PII) must be handled with extra security. PII is data that
is considered personal in nature and could be used to compromise the
privacy of an individual or for identity theft. Extra care should
be taken with servers that contain PII. To address this specific need,
some Rackspace content discusses PII.

### What is PII?

PII includes the following information:

**(i)** a combination of any information that identifies an individual
with that individual's sensitive and non-public financial, health or
other data or attribute, such as a combination of the individual's name,
address, or phone number with the individual's social security number or
other government issued number, financial account number, date of birth,
address, biometric data, mother's maiden name, or other
personally identifiable information;

**(ii)** any "non-public personal information" as that term is defined
in the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act found at 15 USC Subchapter 1, &sect;6809(4),

and **(iii)** "protected health information" as defined in the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act found at 45 CFR &sect;160.103.

### Related article

[Load Balancers FAQ: SSL termination](/support/how-to/cloud-load-balancers-faq)

Commit message:

Audit article: Definition of personally...no changes per SME (#1094)
* Audit article: Definition of personally...no changes per SME

* edits

Co-authored-by: Cat Lookabaugh <cat.lookabaugh@rackspace.com>

content/how-to/general/definition-of-personally-identifiable-information-pii/index.md, after:

---
permalink: definition-of-personally-identifiable-information-pii
audit_date: '2021-05-17'
title: Definition of Personally Identifiable Information (PII)
type: article
created_date: '2012-04-11'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2021-05-17'
last_modified_by: Carlos Arriaga
product: General
product_url: general
---

When you evaluate the security requirements of an application, the
sensitivity of the information stored, processed, or
transmitted by the application is paramount. You have to handle Personally
Identifiable Information (PII) with extra security. PII is personal data
that could compromise individuals' privacy or put them at risk of identity
theft. You should take extra care with servers that contain PII.

### What is PII?

PII includes the following information:

- A combination of any information that identifies an individual
  with that individual's sensitive and non-public financial, health, or
  other data or attribute. This can include a combination of the following
  elements from an individual:
  
   - A name, address, or phone number
   - A social security number or other government-issued number
   - A financial account number
   - A date of birth, address, biometric data, or mother's maiden name
   - Other personally identifiable information.

- Any *non-public personal information* as defined in the
  [Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, 15 USC Subchapter 1, &sect;6809(4)](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/15/6809).

- *Protected health information* as defined in the 
  [Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, 45 CFR &sect;160.103](https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/45/160.103).

### Related article

[Load Balancers FAQ: SSL termination](/support/how-to/cloud-load-balancers-faq)

Use the Feedback tab to make any comments or ask questions. You can also click
**Let's Talk** to [start the conversation](https://www.rackspace.com/).
