---
permalink: myrackspace-multifactor-authentication/
audit_date: '2018-03-30'
title: MyRackspace multifactor authentication
type: article
created_date: '2014-07-14'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2021-04-29'
last_modified_by: Rose Morales
---

Multifactor authentication (MFA), uses an extra device, like a mobile phone, to
provide an additional layer of security when you access your account.
MFA is a significant security improvement over using a password alone. This article
explains how to manage MFA for your MyRackspace account from the
[MyRackspace](https://login.rackspace.com) portal.

**Note:** You must be an administrative user to manage MFA for your MyRackspace account.

### Set up MFA for users

An administrative user of the account can use the **Require Multi-factor**
option to decide whether to make MFA a requirement for all users or allow users to
choose if they want to use MFA.

1. Log in to the [MyRackspace Portal](https://login.rackspace.com).

2. Select **Account > **User Management**.

3. Click **My Multi-Factor Devices**.

4. Next to the **Require Multi-Factor** label, click the pencil icon and
   select one of the following options:

   -  **Required for all users on this account**: Makes MFA a requirement for
      all users on your account. Setup must take place at each user's next login.

   -  **Optional per user**: Makes MFA optional for all users on your account.
      The system prompts users who want to use MFA to register a paired mobile
      passcode or SMS-capable device at their next login.

5. Click **Save Setting**.

### Register a device after MFA is enabled for your account

If your adminstrator enabled MFA for your user account, you must
register a new device to pair with your account by using
these steps:

1.  Log in to the [MyRackspace Portal](https://login.rackspace.com).

2.  Select **Account > **User Management**.

3.  Click **My Multi-Factor Devices**. Now, decide whether you want to use the
    **Mobile Passcode** or **SMS** authentication method.

4.  If you choose the *Mobile Passcode* authentication method, follow these steps:

    a. Click **Add** next to the **Mobile Passcode** option.
    b. Enter a device nickname and click **Add Device**.
    c. Scan the displayed QR code by using the authentication application on
       your device.
    d. To complete the verification of your device, enter the code that the
       authentication application provides after scanning the QR code.

5.  If you choose the SMS authentication method, follow these steps:

    a. Click **Add** next to the **SMS** option.
    b. Enter the phone number of your SMS-capable device and click **Add SMS Device**.

       After you click **Add SMS Device**, the Identity service sends an SMS
       text message with a four-digit PIN to the specified phone.

    c. To complete the verification of your device, enter the 4-digit PIN code
       from the text message that you receive and click **Verify SMS Device**.

6.  After you verify your device by either PIN code or QR code, the system grants
    you access to MyRackspace.

### Log in with multi-factor authentication

After you register a paired device with your account and log in to the
MyRackspace Portal with your username and password, you are prompted for a
verification code to complete MFA. If you have a mobile passcode device paired,
enter the code generated by the mobile passcode application. If you have an SMS
device paired, enter the 7-digit verification code sent via SMS text message
after logging in to the [MyRackspace Portal](https://myrackspace.com).

### Manage your MFA devices

Users are allowed multiple mobile passcode devices and one SMS device for
MFA. To manage the devices that you use with MFA, perform the following steps:

1.  Log in to the [MyRackspace Portal](https://login.rackspace.com).

2.  Select **Account > **User Management**.

3.  Click **My Multi-Factor Devices**.

4.  On the **My Multi-Factor Devices** page, choose one of the following options:

    -   Click **Remove all devices** at the top of the page to remove any
        existing devices.
    -   Click **Manage** next to the **Mobile Passcode** option to manage
        existing mobile passcode devices.
    -   Click **Delete** next to the **Mobile Passcode** option to delete a
        mobile passcode device.
    -   Click **Verify** next to the **Mobile Passcode** option to continue
        setting up a mobile passcode device.
    -   Click **Add** next to the **SMS** option to add a new SMS device.
    -   Click **Delete** next to the **SMS** option to delete an SMS device.
    -   Click **Generate Bypass Codes** to generate from one to ten
        bypass codes to use in place of your device.


### Troubleshoot MFA problems

This section describes a few common problems that you might encounter when
you set up MFA and some basic troubleshooting steps that can help you overcome them.

#### Invalid phone number

When trying to register a mobile device, you might receive an error
indicating an invalid phone number. Confirm that you have entered a valid
10-digit phone number correctly with no extra characters or spaces.

#### Verify device - Invalid PIN

When attempting to verify your mobile device, you might receive an error
that the PIN entered is incorrect. Confirm that you have entered the correct
4-digit PIN received via SMS text message.

#### MyRackspace account locked

After six failed attempts to the [MyRackspace Portal](https://myrackspace.com),
the system locks your account. Failures can result from an invalid username or
password or from an invalid MFA code.

A user with administrator privileges needs to unlock your account. See
the following section for instructions.

#### Unlock a user account

Follow these steps to unlock a user account:

1.  Log in to the [MyRackspace Portal](https://login.rackspace.com).

2.  Select **Account > User List**.

3.  Locate the locked user and open the user's account record.

4.  From the **Actions** menu, select **Unlock User**.

    A green banner is displayed, stating that the user account was
    successfully unlocked.

#### Generate a temporary passcode

Follow these steps to generate a temporary passcode for a user.

**Note:** This item displays in the **Actions** menu for unlocked accoutns only.

1.  Log in to the [MyRackspace Portal](https://login.rackspace.com).

2.  Select **Account > User List**.

3.  Locate the user and open the user's account record.

4.  From the **Actions** menu, select **Send Temporary Code**.

    A green banner displays, stating that the temporary code has
    been sent to the indicated device. The code is valid for
    five minutes.

#### MFA links do not appear in the MyRackspace Portal

If you do not see the MFA links in the menu bar of the MyRackspace Portal, the
account might not be enabled for MFA, or the MFA system might be unavailable
because of maintenance or service interruption.
