content/how-to/managed-operations/properties-of-rdbmss-and-nosql-databases/index.md, before:

---
permalink: properties-of-rdbmss-and-nosql-databases
audit_date: '2019-11-14'
title: 'Properties of RDBMSs and NoSQL databases'
type: article
created_date: '2018-02-27'
created_by: Satyakam Mishra
last_modified_date: '2019-11-19'
last_modified_by: Chad Sterling
product: Managed Operations
product_url: managed-operations
---

This page presents the characteristics of relational database management systems (RDBMSs) and NoSQL databases.

### Prerequisite

For an introduction to relational databases and NoSQL databases, see [Types of databases](/support/how-to/types-of-databases).

### Properties of relational databases

Relational databases are efficient systems, which makes them a common choice
for storing financial records, logistical information, personnel data, and
other information in new databases. Because they are easier
to understand and use than NoSQL databases, relational databases also
frequently replace legacy hierarchical databases and network databases.

Relational databases have the following properties:

- Values are atomic.
- All of the values in a column have the same data type.
- Each row is unique.
- The sequence of columns is insignificant.
- The sequence of rows is insignificant.
- Each column has a unique name.
- Integrity constraints maintain data consistency across multiple tables.

### Properties of NoSQL databases

NoSQL is a schema-less alternative to SQL and RDBMSs designed to store,
process, and analyze extremely large amounts of unstructured data.

In NoSQL databases, the principles of ACID (atomicity, consistency, isolation,
and durability) are reduced. In addition, the process of normalization is not
mandatory in NoSQL. Due to the size and speed of modern data, it is preferable
for NoSQL databases to be de-normalized.

NoSQL databases have the following properties:

- They have higher scalability.
- They use distributed computing.
- They are cost effective.
- They support flexible schema.
- They're able to process both unstructured and semi-structured data.
- There are no complex relationships, such as the ones between tables in an
  RDBMS.

The following table shows the types of non-relational databases and the
features associated with them:

| Type | Performance | Scalability | Flexibility | Complexity |
|-----------------|-------------|------------------|-------------|------------|
| Key-value store | High | High | High | High |
| Column store | High | High | Moderate | Low |
| Document store | High | Variable to high | High | Low |
| Graph-based | Variable | Variable | High | High |

### Next step

[Reasons to use an SQL database](/support/how-to/reasons-to-use-an-sql-db)

Commit message:

audit article: properties-of-rdbmss-and-nosql-databases, fixes broken link

content/how-to/managed-operations/properties-of-rdbmss-and-nosql-databases/index.md, after:

---
permalink: properties-of-rdbmss-and-nosql-databases
audit_date: '2021-06-16'
title: 'Properties of RDBMSs and NoSQL databases'
type: article
created_date: '2018-02-27'
created_by: Satyakam Mishra
last_modified_date: '2021-06-16'
last_modified_by: Ana Corpus
product: Managed Operations
product_url: managed-operations
---

This article presents the characteristics of relational database management systems (RDBMSs) and NoSQL databases.

### Prerequisite

For an introduction to relational databases and NoSQL databases, see [Types of databases](/support/how-to/types-of-databases).

### Properties of relational databases

Relational databases are efficient systems, which makes them a common choice
for storing financial records, logistical information, personnel data, and
other information in new databases. Because they are easier
to understand and use than NoSQL databases, relational databases also
frequently replace legacy hierarchical databases and network databases.

Relational databases have the following properties:

- Values are atomic.

- All of the values in a column have the same data type.

- Each row is unique.

- The sequence of columns is insignificant.

- The sequence of rows is insignificant.

- Each column has a unique name.

- Integrity constraints maintain data consistency across multiple tables.

### Properties of NoSQL databases

NoSQL is a non-schema alternative to SQL and RDBMSs designed to store,
process, and analyze extremely large amounts of unstructured data.

In NoSQL databases, the principles of ACID (atomicity, consistency, isolation,
and durability) are reduced. In addition, the process of normalization is not
mandatory in NoSQL. Due to the size and speed of modern data, it is preferable
for NoSQL databases to be de-normalized.

NoSQL databases have the following properties:

- They have higher scalability.

- They use distributed computing.

- They are cost effective.

- They support flexible schema.

- They're able to process both unstructured and semi-structured data.

- There are no complex relationships, such as the ones between tables in an
  RDBMS.

The following table shows the types of non-relational databases and the
features associated with them:

| Type | Performance | Scalability | Flexibility | Complexity |
|-----------------|-------------|------------------|-------------|------------|
| Key-value store | High | High | High | High |
| Column store | High | High | Moderate | Low |
| Document store | High | Variable to high | High | Low |
| Graph-based | Variable | Variable | High | High |

### Next step

[Reasons to use an SQL database](/support/how-to/reasons-to-use-an-sql-database)

Use the Feedback tab to make any comments or ask questions. You can also [start a conversation with us](https://www.rackspace.com/contact).
