content/how-to/rackspace-intelligence/_index.md, before:

---
audit_date:
title: Rackspace Intelligence
type: article
created_date: '2015-06-09'
created_by: Constanze Kratel
last_modified_date: '2016-01-26'
last_modified_by: Rose Coste
permalink: rackspace-intelligence
product: Rackspace Intelligence
product_url: rackspace-intelligence
---

Rackspace Intelligence for dedicated accounts differs from Rackspace Intelligence for Rackspace Cloud accounts in the way that several features are supported.

For a side-by-side feature comparison, see [Differences between Rackspace Intelligence for cloud accounts and dedicated accounts](/support/how-to/differences-between-rackspace-intelligence-for-cloud-account-and-dedicated-account/).

Some how-to articles about Rackspace Intelligence are specific to one kind of account. If an account type is not specified in its title, an article is relevant to all users of Rackspace Intelligence.

### For cloud accounts only

- [Getting Started with Rackspace Intelligence for the cloud](/support/how-to/getting-started-with-rackspace-intelligence-for-the-cloud)

### For dedicated accounts only

- [Getting Started with Rackspace Intelligence for dedicated accounts](/support/how-to/getting-started-with-rackspace-intelligence-for-dedicated-accounts)
- [Log in to Rackspace Intelligence for dedicated accounts](/support/how-to/log-in-to-rackspace-intelligence-for-dedicated-accounts)
- [Understanding the Rackspace Intelligence User Interface for dedicated accounts](/support/how-to/understanding-the-rackspace-intelligence-user-interface-for-dedicated-accounts)
- [Viewing and creating graphs of activity in Rackspace Intelligence for dedicated accounts](/support/how-to/viewing-and-creating-graphs-of-activity-in-rackspace-intelligence-for-dedicated-accounts)

Commit message:

Audit article: rackspace-intelligence, removes 404 link

content/how-to/rackspace-intelligence/_index.md, after:

---
audit_date: '2021-06-01'
title: Rackspace Intelligence
type: article
created_date: '2015-06-09'
created_by: Constanze Kratel
last_modified_date: '2021-06-01'
last_modified_by: Ana Corpus
permalink: rackspace-intelligence
product: Rackspace Intelligence
product_url: rackspace-intelligence
---

Rackspace Intelligence for dedicated accounts differs from Rackspace Intelligence for Rackspace Cloud accounts in the way that several features are supported.

For a side-by-side feature comparison, see [Differences between Rackspace Intelligence for cloud accounts and dedicated accounts](/support/how-to/differences-between-rackspace-intelligence-for-cloud-account-and-dedicated-account/).

Some how-to articles about Rackspace Intelligence are specific to one kind of account. If an account type is not specified in its title, an article is relevant to all users of Rackspace Intelligence.

### For cloud accounts only

- [Getting Started with Rackspace Intelligence for the cloud](/support/how-to/getting-started-with-rackspace-intelligence-for-the-cloud)

### For dedicated accounts only

- [Getting Started with Rackspace Intelligence for dedicated accounts](/support/how-to/getting-started-with-rackspace-intelligence-for-dedicated-accounts)
- [Log in to Rackspace Intelligence for dedicated accounts](/support/how-to/log-in-to-rackspace-intelligence-for-dedicated-accounts)
- [Understanding the Rackspace Intelligence User Interface for dedicated accounts](/support/how-to/understanding-the-rackspace-intelligence-user-interface-for-dedicated-accounts)

Use the Feedback tab to make any comments or ask questions. You can also click
**Let's Talk** to [start the conversation](https://www.rackspace.com/).
