---
permalink: enabling-raw-logging-for-a-cloud-sites-website/
audit_date:
title: Enable raw logging for a Cloud Sites website
type: article
created_date: '2011-03-16'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2015-12-29'
last_modified_by: Stephanie Fillmon
product: Cloud Sites
product_url: cloud-sites
---

**Note:** This article is written for our [Cloud Sites Control Panel](https://manage.rackspacecloud.com/). You can get to it from the [Cloud Control Panel](https://mycloud.rackspace.com) by clicking **Rackspace Cloud** in the upper-left corner and selecting **Cloud Sites**. You can also navigate directly to <https://manage.rackspacecloud.com/>.

Raw logs are text files generated by your site that record information
about site visitors and what URLs they accessed.  They're in a standard
referred to as "combined log format", designed to be read by log
processors like web stats programs.

You can use the information in a raw log to help optimize your code to
reduce strain on your site and improve response times.  Raw logs can
also be useful in some troubleshooting situations.

Raw logs files can take up a lot of space. If you are not using them
 you may want to disable them to free up space for your account.

Once enabled the raw logs can be found in your domain's FTP directory,
in the "logs" folder.  You can determine the path to the domain using
[this article on finding your web root](/how-to/locate-the-linux-path-for-your-cloud-sites-website).

### Prerequisites

-   Administrative access to the Rackspace Cloud

### Procedure

-   Click **Hosting** on the left navigation menu and then click on
    **Cloud Sites**.
-   From the list of domains click on the hyperlink of the domain for
    which logging needs to be enabled.
    -   You should now be on the **General Settings** tab for
        that website.
-   Scroll down to **Website Features** section and click on the
    **Enable** hyperlink for Raw logs.

**Note:** The log collection occurs at 12 AM Central Time every day. Log files are purged after 6 days.
