---
permalink: rackspace-cloud-sites-essentials-mysql-databases/
audit_date:
title: Rackspace Cloud Sites Essentials - MySQL Databases
type: article
created_date: '2011-02-28'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2016-06-22'
last_modified_by: Kyle Laffoon
product: Cloud Sites
product_url: cloud-sites
---

**Note:** This article is written for our [Cloud Sites Control Panel](https://manage.rackspacecloud.com/). You can get to it from the [Cloud Control Panel](https://mycloud.rackspace.com) by clicking **Rackspace Cloud** in the upper-left corner and selecting **Cloud Sites**. You can also navigate directly to <https://manage.rackspacecloud.com/>.

### Previous section

[Cloud Sites introduction](/how-to/cloud-sites)

This article describes how to add a MYSQL database to your website
through Cloud Sites. Follow the steps below:

1. Log into the [Rackspace Cloud Control Panel](http://manage.rackspacecloud.com).
2. Navigate to **Hosting > Cloud Sites**.
3. Click the **domain name** to which you would like to add your database.
4. From the domain details view, click the **Features** tab.
5. In the Databases section, click **Add**.

   **Note:** If the Add button is not visible, then the database feature
   can be added by allowing at least one database on your site. For more
   Cloud Sites help, see the [Cloud Sites support page](/how-to/cloud-sites).

   As long as you have the **Add** button, then you are good to proceed.

6. Next, enter a database name identifier in the **Database Name** field.
7. Select a database type from the **Database Type** options and press
    **Continue** to proceed.

   **Note:** The prefix of the database name is generated for the user by
   Cloud Sites. The database name is a combination of the prefix and the
   identifier.

8. Next, enter a database user identifier in the **Database Username** field.

9. Enter a password in the **Password** field, confirm the password
   by reentering it in the **Confirm Password** field, and then click
   **Finish**.

   **Note:** The prefix of the database user name is generated by Cloud
   Sites. The database user name is a combination of the prefix and the
   identifier.

10. A clock icon is displayed while the database completes the setup.
    Click the **Features** tab to refresh the status.
    
11. Confirm that the new database is active by verifying that the
    Status column has a green check mark icon to the left of the
    database name.

    **Note:** If your database does not have a green check next to in in
    excess of ten minutes and you are still experiencing a problem, please
    do not hesitate to contact our technical support 24x7 by phone, chat, or
    by submitting a ticket through your Control Panel.

With the preceding steps completed, you have added a MySQL database to your
website. Users can now start working with the new MySQL database.

The next article demonstrates how to work with your new database through
our online MySQL database interface.

### Next section

[PHPmyAdmin database management interface](/how-to/rackspace-cloud-sites-essentials-phpmyadmin-database-management-interface)
