---
permalink: rackspace-cloud-sites-essentials-mssql-databases/
audit_date:
title: Rackspace Cloud Sites Essentials - MSSQL Databases
type: article
created_date: '2011-03-16'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2016-06-22'
last_modified_by: Kyle Laffoon
product: Cloud Sites
product_url: cloud-sites
---

**Note:** This article is written for our [Cloud Sites Control Panel](https://manage.rackspacecloud.com/). You can get to it from the [Cloud Control Panel](https://mycloud.rackspace.com) by clicking **Rackspace Cloud** in the upper-left corner and selecting **Cloud Sites**. You can also navigate directly to <https://manage.rackspacecloud.com/>.

### Previous section

[Cloud Sites introduction](/how-to/cloud-sites)

In this article we are going to learn how to add a MSSQL database to
your website in Cloud Sites. The process is fairly simple so let's
jump in and add our first database.

1.  Log in to the [Rackspace Cloud Control Panel](http://manage.rackspacecloud.com).

2.  Navigate to **Hosting > Cloud Sites**.

3.  From the list of domains, select the website for which a new MSSQL database needs to be added.

4.  Click the **Features** tab.

5.  In the **Databases** section click **Add** button.

6.  Enter a **database name**.

7.  Choose a database type as SQL_Server_2008 and click **Continue**.

    **Note:** The prefix of the database name is generated for the user by
    Cloud Sites. The database name is a combination of the prefix and the
    identifier.

8.  Provide a database **user name**, a **password** and then
    click **Finish**.

    **Note:** The prefix of the database user name is generated by Cloud
    Sites. The database user name will be a combination of the prefix and
    the identifier.

9.  A clock icon is displayed while the database completes setup, click
    on the **Features tab** to refresh status.

10.  Confirm that the new database is active verifying that the status column has a **green check mark** icon next to the database name.

    **Note:** This process can take a few moments to complete. If your
    database does not have a green check mark next to it in excess of 10
    minutes and you are still experiencing a problem, please do not hesitate
    to contact our technical support 24x7 via phone, chat or by submitting a
    ticket through your control panel.

Congratulations! You have added a Microsoft SQL database to your
website! In the next article we will learn how to start working with the
new MSSQL database.

### Next section

[Cloud Sites Technologies](/how-to/rackspace-cloud-sites-essentials-cloud-sites-technologies)
