content/how-to/cloud-servers/using-python-novaclient-with-the-rackspace-cloud/index.md, before:

---
permalink: using-python-novaclient-with-the-rackspace-cloud
audit_date: '2018-10-25'
title: Using the python-novaclient with Rackspace Cloud Servers
type: article
created_date: '2012-07-23'
created_by: Jered Heeschen
last_modified_date: '2020-09-04'
last_modified_by: Cat Lookabaugh
product: Cloud Servers
product_url: cloud-servers
---

Python-novaclient is a command-line interface (cli) client for controlling
OpenStack cloud server instances.  Because Rackspace Cloud Servers are based on
OpenStack, the python-novaclient also works with that product. The cli client
provides a bit more functionality than the
[Cloud Control Panel](https://login.rackspace.com) without needing to delve
into the Application Programmer Interface (API) directly.

We have installation instructions for Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux:

-   [Installing python-novaclient on
    Windows](/support/how-to/installing-python-novaclient-on-windows)
-   [Installing python-novaclient on Linux and Mac
    OS](/support/how-to/installing-python-novaclient-on-linux-and-mac-os)

You'll find a list of common operations that can be performed with the
client here:

-   [Useful python-novaclient
    commands](/support/how-to/useful-python-novaclient-commands)

Commit message:

Audit files: using-python-novaclient-with-the-rackspace-cloud, updates links

content/how-to/cloud-servers/using-python-novaclient-with-the-rackspace-cloud/index.md, after:

---
permalink: using-python-novaclient-with-the-rackspace-cloud
audit_date: '2021-06-17'
title: Using the python-novaclient with Rackspace Cloud Servers
type: article
created_date: '2012-07-23'
created_by: Jered Heeschen
last_modified_date: '2021-06-17'
last_modified_by: Ana Corpus
product: Cloud Servers
product_url: cloud-servers
---

Python-novaclient is a command-line interface (cli) client for controlling
OpenStack&reg; cloud server instances.  Because Rackspace Cloud Servers are based on
OpenStack, the python-novaclient also works with that product. The cli client
provides a bit more functionality than the
[Cloud Control Panel](https://login.rackspace.com) without needing to delve
into the Application Programmer Interface (API) directly.

The following links provide installation instructions for Windows&reg;, Mac OS X&reg;, and Linux&reg;:

-   [Installing python-novaclient using pip](https://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/user-guide/common/cli_install_openstack_command_line_clients.html)
-   [Installing python-novaclient on Linux and Mac OS X using yum](/https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openstack_platform/10/html/command-line_interface_reference_guide/install_clients)

You'll find a list of common operations that can be performed with the
client here:

-   [Useful python-novaclient
    commands](/support/how-to/useful-python-novaclient-commands)

Use the Feedback tab to make any comments or ask questions. You can also [start a conversation with us](https://www.rackspace.com/contact).
