content/how-to/cloud-files/cloud-files-streaming-with-osmf-plugins/index.md, before:

---
permalink: cloud-files-streaming-with-osmf-plugins
audit_date:
title: Cloud Files Streaming with OSMF Plugins
type: article
created_date: '2011-09-12'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2016-04-14'
last_modified_by: Stephanie Fillmon
product: Cloud Files
product_url: cloud-files
---

Streaming allows users to serve their content directly from Akamai edge
servers, rather than downloading full files before they are viewable.
Using the OSMF plugins let developers make their own Adobe Flash
players, giving them the flexibility to customize and brand them as they
wish.

Download the [Advanced Streaming Plugin for OSMF](https://mediapm.edgesuite.net/akamai-osmf-plugins/samples/).

Since OSMF plugins allow you to develop your own Flash video player and
embed it as needed into your website, Rackspace does not have
step-by-step instructions. If you are looking for a player that does
not require development by your team, try our [FlowPlayer plugins for Streaming over the Akamai CDN](/support/how-to/cloud-files-streaming-with-flowplayer-plugins).

For more resources on OSMF, visit
<https://mediapm.edgesuite.net/akamai-osmf-plugins/samples/>.

For more information on streaming, please visit the [Cloud Files FAQ](/support/how-to/cloud-files-faq).

Commit message:

Audit files: cloud-files-streaming-with-osmf-plugins, adds Disclaimer (#1146)
* Audit files: cloud-files-streaming-with-osmf-plugins, adds Disclaimer

* edits

Co-authored-by: Cat Lookabaugh <cat.lookabaugh@rackspace.com>

content/how-to/cloud-files/cloud-files-streaming-with-osmf-plugins/index.md, after:

---
permalink: cloud-files-streaming-with-osmf-plugins
audit_date: '2021-05-26'
title: Cloud Files streaming with OSMF plugins
type: article
created_date: '2011-09-12'
created_by: Rackspace Support
last_modified_date: '2021-05-26'
last_modified_by: Ana Corpus
product: Cloud Files
product_url: cloud-files
---

**Disclaimer**: As of January 12, 2021, excluding the China variant  of Flash, 
the Flash executable has a built-in kill switch that prevents it from playing 
Flash files. As of February 2021, all major browsers block Flash and cannot 
play it. Only IE11, niche browser forks, and some browsers built for China plan
to continue support.

Streaming allows users to serve their content directly from Akamai&reg; edge
servers rather than downloading full files before they are viewable.
Using the OSMF plugins lets developers make their own Adobe Flash
players, giving them the flexibility to customize and brand them as they
want.

Download the [Advanced Streaming Plugin for OSMF](http://players.edgesuite.net/flash/landing/aasp/current/).

Because OSMF plugins enable you to develop your own Flash video player and
embed it as needed into your website, Rackspace does not have
step-by-step instructions. If you are looking for a player that does
not require development by your team, try our
[FlowPlayer plugins for Streaming over the Akamai CDN](/support/how-to/cloud-files-streaming-with-flowplayer-plugins).

For more resources on OSMF, visit
<http://players.edgesuite.net/flash/landing/aasp/current/>.

For more information on streaming, visit the [Cloud Files FAQ](/support/how-to/cloud-files-faq).

Use the Feedback tab to make any comments or ask questions. You can also click
**Let's Talk** to [start the conversation](https://www.rackspace.com/).
