---
permalink: mysql-connection-methods/
audit_date:
title: 'MySQL connection methods'
type: article
created_date: '2021-02-09'
created_by: Alfonso Murillo
last_modified_date:
last_modified_by:
product: Cloud Servers
product_url: cloud-servers
---


Connect to a MySQL server through MySQL Workbench.

To connect to a MySQL server through **MySQL Workbench** there are three different methods: Standard TCP/IP Connection, Local Socket/Pipe Connection, and Standard TCP/IP over SSH Connection.


### Start a new connection in MySQL Workbench
To start the connection through MySQL Workbench follow the next steps:
1. Go to **Database > Connect to Database...**
2. Type a Connection Name.
3. Select the desired Connection Method frrom the dropdown list. These methods are exaplined through the article.

### 1. Standard TCP/IP Connection Method
*It is important to note that this method is affected by the `skip_networking` MySQL system variable. When this variable is disables, use named pipes or shaped memory (on Windows) or Unix socket files (on Unix).*

The parameters found in the different tabs are as shown:
- **Parameters**
    - *Hostname:* MySQL server's hostname or IP address.
	- *Port:* the default TCP/IP port is 3306, but the MySQL server might be configure to listen to another port for this protocol.
	- *Username:* the user that will be used for the connection.
	- *Password:* if not specified, the user's password should be entered when MySQL Workbench tries to connect. You can also use a vault to store passwords.
	- *Default Schema:* schema used by default when connected.

- **SSL**
	- *Use SSL:* select 'No' to disable SSL ecnryption, 'If available' to use the encryption only if the client library supports it, and 'Require' to make it mandatory to use SSL encryption for the connection.
	- *SSL Key File:* specify the path on your local computer to the SSL Key file.
	- *SSL CERT File:* specify the path on your local computer to the SSL CERT file.
	- *SSL CA File:* specify the path on your local computer to the SSL Certification Authority file.
	- *SSL Cipher:* select which cipher you want to use for the SSL encryption, if you want a specific one.
In this tab you also find two buttons:
	- *SSL Wizard:* it need access to OpenSSL binary files in the system's PATH to generate SSL certificates for the MySQL server and client.
	- *Files:* shows the location of the SSL files that were generated by the SSL Wizard.

- **Advanced**
	- *Use compression protocol:* check this option to compress the communication between MySQL Workbench and the MySQL server. This option will increase transfer rates.
	- *Use ANSI quotes to quote identifiers:* use the double quotes (") to quote identifiers, instead of literal strings. This overrides the server setting.
	- *Enable Cleartext Authentication Plugin:* for some authentication methods that require the user's password to be clear text, instead of encrypted
	-  *Use the old authentication protocol:* disables the Connector/C++ `secure_auth option`. This helps users that use the old `mysql_old_password` authentication plugin to connect to the server.
	- *Timeout:* the time to try before the connection is aborted.
	- *SQL_MODE:* specify an `SQL_MODE` to override the server's default.

### 2. Local Socket/Pipe Connection Method
This connection method has the same tabs than the Stabdard TCP/IP one:

- **Parameters**
    - *Socket/Pipe Path:* specify the path on your local computer to the local socket or pipe file. If this rmpty, it uses the default location.
    - The username, password and default schema options are as in the Standard TCP/IP Connection Method.

- **SSL**
    - All the options in this tab are the same as in the Standard TCP/IP Connection Method.

- **Advanced**
    - Most of the options in this tab are the same as in the Standard TCP/IP Connection Method.
    - The 'Use compression protocol' and 'Timeout' options do not apply for this method.



### 3. Standard TCP/IP over SSH Connection Method

- **Parameters**
    - This method uses some common parameters with the Standard TCP/IP Connection Method and includes some other features.
    - *SSH Hostname:* hostname for the SSH server, where an optional port number can be provided after a semicolon.
    - *SSH Username:* user used to make the SSH connection.
    - *SSH Password:* the password for the SSH connection. A vault can also be used.
    - *SSH Key File:* specify the path on your local computer to the SSH key file.

    In the case there is an error due to different host fingerprints, you can find the SSH host fingerprints in ` ~/.ssh/known_hosts` for Linux and macOS systems, and on `C:\Users\username\.ssh\known_hosts` for Windows.

- **SSL**
    - All the options in this tab are the same as in the Standard TCP/IP Connection Method.

- **Advanced**
    - Most of the options in this tab are the same as in the Standard TCP/IP Connection Method.
    - The 'Timeout' option does not apply for this method.


With any of these methods, you will be able to create a connection between the MySQL Workbench app and your MySQL server, depending on which suits better your requirements.
