content/how-to/retired-articles/logging-in-to-the-rackspace-intelligence-dashboard/index.md, before:

---
permalink: logging-in-to-the-rackspace-intelligence-dashboard
audit_date:
title: Log in to the Rackspace Intelligence dashboard
type: article
created_date: '2015-07-16'
created_by: Rose Coste
last_modified_date: '2018-10-31'
last_modified_by: Kate Dougherty

---

To use Rackspace Intelligence, you must have a [Rackspace Cloud
account](https://cart.rackspace.com/cloud) and you must be logged in to
the [Cloud Control Panel](https://login.rackspace.com/) for that
account. Rackspace Intelligence has no separate login process.

### Use Cloud Control Panel to access Rackspace Intelligence

1.  Go to the Rackspace Intelligence user interface
    at [https://intelligence.rackspace.com](https://intelligence.rackspace.com/).

    If you're not already logged in,
    Rackspace Intelligence redirects you to the
    [Cloud Control Panel](https://login.rackspace.com) for login.

2.  At the Cloud Control Panel login page, log in as usual. If your
    account is configured to require it, you might need to perform
    additional steps to
    [log in with multi-factor authentication](/support/how-to/multi-factor-authentication-from-the-cloud-control-panel).

### See different aspects of the same entities in Cloud Control Panel and Rackspace Intelligence

While you are logged in, the Rackspace Intelligence user interface can
display information about some of the same entities that you can see in
the Cloud Control Panel. For example, if you use the Cloud Control Panel
to create a cloud server, you can then use the Rackspace Intelligence
interface to visualize the status of that server.

Commit message:

mfa updates 2 (#1060)
* replacing multi-factor for multifactor

* slashes

* folder names

* edits

* edits

* edits

* edits

* edits

* edits

* edits

* edits

* edits

* edits

* edits

* edit

* matadata update

Co-authored-by: Cat Lookabaugh <cat.lookabaugh@rackspace.com>

content/how-to/retired-articles/logging-in-to-the-rackspace-intelligence-dashboard/index.md, after:

---
permalink: logging-in-to-the-rackspace-intelligence-dashboard
audit_date:
title: Log in to the Rackspace Intelligence dashboard
type: article
created_date: '2015-07-16'
created_by: Rose Coste
last_modified_date: '2021-05-05'
last_modified_by: Rose Morales

---

To use Rackspace Intelligence, you must have a [Rackspace Cloud
account](https://cart.rackspace.com/cloud) and log in to
the [Cloud Control Panel](https://login.rackspace.com/) for that
account. Rackspace Intelligence has no separate login process.

### Use Cloud Control Panel to access Rackspace Intelligence

1.  Go to the Rackspace Intelligence user interface
    at [https://intelligence.rackspace.com](https://intelligence.rackspace.com/).

    If you haven't already logged in, Rackspace Intelligence redirects you to the
    [Cloud Control Panel](https://login.rackspace.com) login.

2.  At the Cloud Control Panel login page, log in as usual. If your
    account requires it, you might need to perform additional steps to
    [log in with multifactor authentication](/support/how-to/multifactor-authentication-from-the-cloud-control-panel/).

### See different aspects of the same entities in Cloud Control Panel and Rackspace Intelligence

After you log in, the Rackspace Intelligence user interface can
display information about some of the same entities you can see in
the Cloud Control Panel. For example, if you use the Cloud Control Panel
to create a cloud server, you can then use the Rackspace Intelligence
interface to visualize the status of that server.
