content/how-to/cloud-servers/copy-files-with-scp-and-rsync/index.md, before:

---
permalink: copy-files-with-scp-and-rsync/
audit_date:
title: 'Copy files with scp and rsync'
type: article
created_date: '2020-06-18'
created_by: Jose Quezada
last_modified_date:
last_modified_by:
product: Cloud Servers
product_url: cloud-servers
---

This article describes how to transfer a file from and to a remote server.

### Copying files and directories in a remote way to and from your server

You can use either SSH or rsync to transfer files to a remote server. Secure Copy (scp) uses SSH to copy only the files or directories that you select. On first use, rsync copies all files and directories and then only copies files and directories that you have changed. rsync does not copy all the files and directories again.

##### SSH and scp examples:

Copy a file **from** a remote server:
```sh
~$ scp user@IP.address:/path/file_name /local/destination/path/
```
Copy a directory **from** a remote server:
```sh
~$ scp -r user@IP.address:/path/directory[/] /local/destination/path/
```

Copy a file **to** a remote server:
```sh
~$ scp /local/path/file_name user@IP.address:/destination/path/
```
Copy a directory **to** a remote server:
```sh
~$ scp  -r /local/path/directory[/]  user@IP.address:/destination/path/
```

##### rsync examples:

Because rsync transfers files recursively, you do not need to add the `-r` flag. You can use the following commands to transfer the files in an archived and compressed way:

	-a, --archive
	       Like recursion, this option preserves source characteristics (for example, permissions).
	-v, --verbose
	       This option shows you more information during the transfer.
	-z, --compress
	       With this option, RSYNC compresses the file data sent to the destination machine.

Copy a file **from** a remote server:
```sh
	~$ rsync [-avz] user@IP.address:/path/file_name /local/destination/path/
```
Copy a directory **from** a remote server:
```sh
	~$ rsync [-avz] user@IP.address:/path/directory[/] /local/destination/path/
```

Copy a file **to** a remote server:
```sh
	~$ rsync [-avz] /local/path/file_name user@IP.address:/destination/path/
```
Copy a directory **to** a remote server:
```sh
	~$ rsync [-avz] /local/path/directory[/]  user@IP.address:/destination/path/
```


**Note:**
A  trailing  slash ( / ) on the source changes the transfer behavior to avoid creating an additional directory level at the destination. With the slash, the directory content is copied without creating a new folder. Without the slash, a new directory is created with the source directory´s name. Following are examples without and with the slash:

            `
            ~$ rsync [-avz] /local/path/directory  user@IP.address:/destination/path/
            `
            `
            ~$ rsync [-avz] /local/path/directory/  user@IP.address:/destination/path/
            `

Commit message:

Audit article: copy-files-with-scp..., no changes

content/how-to/cloud-servers/copy-files-with-scp-and-rsync/index.md, after:

---
permalink: copy-files-with-scp-and-rsync/
audit_date: '2021-05-04'
title: 'Copy files with scp and rsync'
type: article
created_date: '2020-06-18'
created_by: Jose Quezada
last_modified_date: '2021-05-04'
last_modified_by: Ana Corpus
product: Cloud Servers
product_url: cloud-servers
---

This article describes how to transfer a file from and to a remote server.

### Copying files and directories with scp or rsync

You can use **SSH** or **rsync** to transfer files to a remote server. Secure Copy (scp) uses SSH to copy only the files or directories that you select. On first use, **rsync** copies all files and directories and then it only copies the files and directories that you have changed. **rsync** does not copy all the files and directories again.

##### SSH and scp examples:

* Copy a file **from** a remote server:
```sh
~$ scp user@IP.address:/path/file_name /local/destination/path/
```
* Copy a directory **from** a remote server:
```sh
~$ scp -r user@IP.address:/path/directory[/] /local/destination/path/
```

* Copy a file **to** a remote server:
```sh
~$ scp /local/path/file_name user@IP.address:/destination/path/
```
* Copy a directory **to** a remote server:
```sh
~$ scp  -r /local/path/directory[/]  user@IP.address:/destination/path/
```

##### rsync examples:

Because rsync transfers files recursively, you do not need to add the `-r` flag. You can use the following commands to transfer the files in an archived and compressed way:

	-a, --archive
	       Like recursion, this option preserves source characteristics (for example, permissions).
	-v, --verbose
	       This option shows you more information during the transfer.
	-z, --compress
	       With this option, RSYNC compresses the file data sent to the destination machine.

* Copy a file **from** a remote server:
```sh
	~$ rsync [-avz] user@IP.address:/path/file_name /local/destination/path/
```
* Copy a directory **from** a remote server:
```sh
	~$ rsync [-avz] user@IP.address:/path/directory[/] /local/destination/path/
```

* Copy a file **to** a remote server:
```sh
	~$ rsync [-avz] /local/path/file_name user@IP.address:/destination/path/
```
* Copy a directory **to** a remote server:
```sh
	~$ rsync [-avz] /local/path/directory[/]  user@IP.address:/destination/path/
```


**Note:**
A  trailing  slash ( / ) on the source changes the transfer behavior to avoid creating an additional directory level at the destination. With the slash, the directory content is copied without creating a new folder. Without the slash, a new directory is created with the source directory´s name. Following are examples without and with the slash:

            `
            ~$ rsync [-avz] /local/path/directory  user@IP.address:/destination/path/
            `
            `
            ~$ rsync [-avz] /local/path/directory/  user@IP.address:/destination/path/
            `
Use the Feedback tab to make any comments or ask questions. You can also click
**Let's Talk** to [start the conversation](https://www.rackspace.com/).
