---
permalink: windows-event-viewer/
audit_date:
title: 'Windows Event Viewer Overview'
type: article
created_date: '2020-6-16'
created_by: Richard Daugherty
last_modified_date: 
last_modified_by:
product: Cloud Product
product_url: cloud-product
---

# Windows Event Viewer

This article will cover what the Windows Event Viewer is as and what it is used for. 

The Windows Event Viewer is an interface which allows you to view, navigate, and search event logs. Each event that occurs is logged in order to assist you with determining what happened in your computer. These events can be caused by either an application or a person. When an event occurs, it is turned into a log as it can help you track what happened and troubleshoot problems.

## Events

### There are five categories of Windows logs by default:

    - Application - Information from locally installed applications.
    - Security - Information related to login attempts, privilege requests, and audits.
    - Setup - Messages generated during installation and updates of the Windows operating system. 
    - System - Messages generated by the operating system.
    - Forwarded Events - Events from other computers if the computer is set up as a central subscriber.
    
### Each event will have a severity level:

    - Information - Messages which indicate a successful action.
    - Warning - Messages which indicate this might become a problem.
    - Error - Messages which indicate a significant problem occurred.

Security audit logs will log either a success or failure.

Please note that you will often see Warning and Error logs as you scan through. These do not necissarily mean that there is a problem. There are built in steps for the operating system and most applications that will aotomatically solve these issues and bring your normal services back online. You only need to focus on alerts related to the issues you are investigating. 

## Accessing the Event Viewer

The following sections provide instructions for accessing the Event Viewer in different versions of Windows.

### Windows Server 2008 R2

Click **Start** -> **Control Panel** -> **System and Security** -> **Administrative Tools**.
Double-click **Event Viewer**.

### Windows Server 2012

Hover your mouse over the bottom-left corner of the desktop to make the **Start** button appears.
Right-click **Start**, select **Control Panel** -> **System Security**, and double-click **Administrative Tools**.
Double-click **Event Viewer**.

### Windows Server 2012 R2 and Windows Server 2016

Right-click **Start**, select **Control Panel** -> **System & Security**, and double-click **Administrative Tools**.
Double-click **Event Viewer**.

Please note that while most logs can be reviewed in Windows Event Viewer, some applications have their own application logs. These exceptions include to:

    - DNS Manager
    - Failover Cluster Manager
    - IIS Access
    - Task Scheduler History
    - Windows Component Service
